We've previously used Partial Dependence Plots to show how a single feature impacts predictions. These are insightful and relevant for many real-world use cases. Plus, with a little effort, they can be explained to a non-technical audience.

But there's a lot they don't show. For instance, what is the distribution of effects? Is the effect of having a certain value pretty constant, or does it vary a lot depending on the values of other feaures. SHAP dependence contribution plots provide a similar insight to PDP's, but they add a lot more detail.

			[3.1 image]

Start by focusing on the shape, and we'll come back to color in a minute. Each dot represents a row of the data. The horizontal location is the actual value from the dataset, and the vertical location shows what having that value did to the prediction. The fact this slopes upward says that the more you possess the ball, the higher the model's prediction is for winning the Man of the Match award.

The spread suggests that other features must interact with Ball Possession %. For example, here we have highlighted two points with similar ball possession values. That value caused one prediction to increase, and it caused the other prediction to decrease.

			[3.2 image]

For comparison, a simple linear regression would produce plots that are perfect lines, without this spread.

This suggests we delve into the interactions, and the plots include color coding to help do that. While the primary trend is upward, you can visually inspect whether that varies by dot color.

Consider the following very narrow example for concreteness.

			[3.3 image]

These two points stand out spatially as being far away from the upward trend. They are both colored purple, indicating the team scored one goal. You can interpret this to say: "In general, having the ball increases a team's chance of having their player win the award. But if they only score one goal, that trend reverses and the award judges may penalize them for having the ball so much if they score that little".